Iana review (#50)
core-wg/cf-reg-update: draft-ietf-core-cf-reg-update.md

## New Section 12.3.1 "Temporary Content-Format Registrations"

> This section clarifies that the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry allows temporary registrations within the 0-255, 256-9999 and 10000-64999 ranges.

Reviewer: s/256-9999 and/256-9999, and

Reviewer 2: done in last commit

A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action, as requested by the authors of an Internet-Draft in the IETF stream.

> If the referenced media type is provisional (that is, included in the IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type" registry {{IANA.provisional-standard-media-types}}) then a temporary registration is always created.

Reviewer 2: ok with the change!

> If the referenced media type is provisional (that is, included in the IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type" registry {{IANA.provisional-standard-media-types}}) then a temporary registration is always created.

Reviewer 2: done in last commit

A temporary registration is marked as such by IANA in the corresponding registry entry.
Once the required review procedure for the temporary ID has successfully completed, and the referenced media type is included in the IANA Media Types registry {{IANA.media-types}}, IANA must remove any indication about the temporary nature of the registration so that the entry becomes permanent.

> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not successfully pass its required review procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Reviewer 2: I can try to clarify! We didn't define this before in the latest published draft.
It's basically the items listed under the column "Registration Procedures" so we could call it "registration procedure" and refer to section {{iana}}.

> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not successfully pass its required review procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Author: OK, we could say:

```suggestion
If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 fails the registration procedure described in {{iana}}, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".
```

> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not successfully pass its required review procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Reviewer 2: oops, missed your comment now - see the last commit for another text suggestion.

> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not successfully pass its required review procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Author: np! Yours looks good to me.

> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not successfully pass its required review procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Reviewer: OLD
> If a temporary registration in the range 0-9999 does not

NEW
> If a temporary registration (in any range) does not

The changes above are admitting temporary registrations also for identifiers in the range 10000-64999, i.e., in all ranges, right?

Reviewer 2: It's similar to a registration via email for example: it gets added, and maybe no-one will ever use it anymore, but still the ID remains forever as long as the media type exists.

Reviewer: I see, thanks! Then two things:

* "in the range 0-9999 does not" can instead be "in the 0-255 and 256-9999 ranges", since the registry shows those two as independent "ranges".

* Maybe it's better to include this explanation in a follow-up sentence, as a note that entries in the 10000-64999 range are going to stay (unless, as explained right below, they correspond to a provisional media type and this gets abandoned, at which point they are also removed).

Reviewer 2: Ok I can try an update for this!

## New Section 12.3.1 "Temporary Content-Format Registrations"

This section clarifies that the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry allows temporary registrations within the 0-255, 256-9999, and 10000-64999 ranges.

> A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action, as requested by the authors of an Internet-Draft in the IETF stream.

Author: AFAIU, it’s a bit more intricate than that: early allocations are requested by WG chairs after the AD has approved the request made by the editors.

Reviewer: Right; so maybe s/as requested by the authors of an Internet-Draft/as requested for an Internet-Draft

Reviewer 2: What about: "A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action, based on an Internet-Draft in the IETF stream."

This is just an example; so we don't exclude possible other ways or other types of documents.

Author: YAP (yet another proposal)

> _"A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action {{-iana-early}}.”_

Reviewer 2: Ok, used this in the latest commit.

If the referenced media type is provisional (that is, included in the IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type" registry {{IANA.provisional-standard-media-types}}) then a created registration is always temporary.

A temporary registration is marked as such by IANA in the corresponding registry entry.
Once the required registration procedure (defined in {{tbl-new-cf-proc}}) for the temporary ID has successfully completed, and the referenced media type is included in the IANA Media Types registry {{IANA.media-types}}, IANA must remove any indication about the temporary nature of the registration so that the entry becomes permanent.

If a temporary registration does not successfully complete the registration procedure, IANA must remove the entry and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".
This may happen for example when an Internet-Draft requesting a Content-Format ID is abandoned.
If a temporary registration (in any range) refers to a provisional media type that is abandoned, IANA must remove the entry and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

> Note that in the 10000-64999 range the abandonment of a document requesting a Content-Format ID does not impact the decision whether or not to remove the entry.
> That is because the required registration procedure for this range does not require completion of any standards process, nor does it require a registering document.

Author: tiny grammar tweaks

```suggestion
Note that in the 10000-64999 range, the abandonment of a document requesting a Content-Format ID does not impact the decision to remove the entry.
That is because the required registration procedure for this range does not require the completion of any standards process or a registering document.
```

Reviewer 2: @thomas-fossati I think removing the "whether or not" just changed the semantics of the sentence! Now it sounds like the decision is always to remove the entry or that such decision is already being considered.

Actually, it is so that the abandonment of a document is not an event that triggers a removal decision. Nor does it trigger a "keep it" decision.

Author: I don’t see the semantic change.

To my non-native English speaker _"whether or not”_ covers all the possibilities, therefore, is semantically redundant.

Reviewer 2: Well, there's multiple decisions that could be taking place:

1. decision to make to either remove an entry or leave the entry (not yet made)
2. decision to not remove an entry (already made)
3. decision to remove an entry (already made)

The original text indicates 1., which could after making the decision result in 2. or 3. While the removal of "whether or not" does immediately narrow the choices down to 3. only especially with the word "the" in front.
As in "the decision to remove the entry" -> decision is there, has been made already. Entry will be removed. As in "the decision to go on holiday in France".

About use of the / a :   just FYI, we should avoid deriving our semantics from such a small difference :) 
If you say "a decision to remove the entry" -> less certain; it's a decision in general that may come or may not come. Entry is only removed when such a decision does come.

Author: Sorry for the (unnecessary) churn.
It has to do with the likely peculiar way I read this bizarre and foreign language :-)
To me “the decision to remove an entry” already contains all potential outcomes (remove it or leave it).
If it makes it clearer I am happy to leave the “whether or not” in.

Reviewer 2: I found a formulation to work around this: see latest commit.
`Note that in the 10000-64999 range the abandonment of a document requesting a Content-Format ID does not cause an entry to be removed.`

Reviewer 2: @thomas-fossati Yep that language can be intricate: here's a similar case https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/decision-to-on.3202602/

So "decision on" is better if the outcome isn't known yet.

And here's the typical use of "decision to remove" : https://ludwig.guru/s/decision+to+remove 
when the outcome is known.

Author: Fantastic references, thanks!

## New Section 12.3.1 "Temporary Content-Format Registrations"

This section clarifies that the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry allows temporary registrations within the 0-255, 256-9999, and 10000-64999 ranges.

A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action, as requested by the authors of an Internet-Draft in the IETF stream.
If the referenced media type is provisional (that is, included in the IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type" registry {{IANA.provisional-standard-media-types}}) then a created registration is always temporary.

A temporary registration is marked as such by IANA in the corresponding registry entry.
Once the required registration procedure (defined in {{tbl-new-cf-proc}}) for the temporary ID has successfully completed, and the referenced media type is included in the IANA Media Types registry {{IANA.media-types}}, IANA must remove any indication about the temporary nature of the registration so that the entry becomes permanent.

> If a temporary registration does not successfully complete the registration procedure, IANA must remove the entry again and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".

Author: spurious “again” ?

```suggestion
If a temporary registration does not successfully complete the registration procedure, IANA must remove the entry and set the Content-Format ID value back to "Unassigned".
```

A temporary registration may be created for example by an IANA early allocation action, as requested by the authors of an Internet-Draft in the IETF stream.
Alternatively, it may be created because the referenced media type is still provisional (that is, included in the IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type" registry {{IANA.provisional-standard-media-types}}).

A temporary registration is marked as such by IANA in the corresponding registry entry.

> Once the required review procedure for the temporary ID has successfully completed, and the referenced media type is included in the IANA Media Types registry {{IANA.media-types}}, IANA must remove the any indication about the temporary nature of the registration so that the entry becomes permanent.

Reviewer: s/remove the any/remove any
